# How to structure your components

Creating a good structure for your react application is not an easy task and there is not a 100% right solution. In this article I'd like to show what are your options.

In general I'd like to seperate the following concerns in frontend architecture:

- The *UI Kit* components are your most basic building blocks. Think of the bootstrap for your application. Typical examples for *UI Kit* components are a `<Button>` or `<Layout>` component. To determine wether a component is a good candidate for the *UI Kit* I'm gonna ask the following question: "Could this component used in a completely different context?" If your task is to build a kick ass next generation banking interface could this component also be useful for the next door childcare website? *Protip:* If you design the interface (properties) for these components try to avoid passing domain objects. Defining a PropType as a shape is a typical code smell on these components. Try to specify every attribute as primary surface. *Caveats:* if you create wrappers around HTML form primitives like an input or an select is a good practice to stay as close to the properties a developer would apply to the original HTML element (e.g. the options of type for a button) also the callback should mimic the interface of the underlying element. E.g. if you create your own switch component it is tempting to create your own `onChange` where you simply pass your value but there will be problems when you try to tie these components to a form library like `formik` or `redux-form`. These expect a `SyntheticEvent` where a persist method can be called.
- The `domain kit` moves one layer higher in the abstraction. In general these components are tied to the use case of your application. Their properties should be domain objects instead of individual properties. *Protip:* Unexperienced devs are sometimes running into the fallacy that they map a backend entity relationship archtitecture onto a frontend architecture. This leads to similar components that just differ for the interface.
- The `containers` are on the highest level of UI abstraction. They should be tied directly to your router and store management (no matter if it's MobX, Redux or a simple React Context). A good practice is to keep these containers pretty thin: They should get the data from the store. If it's not there they should start some actions to fetch it and pass it to a `domain kit` component. *Protip:* Keeping them thin simplifies testing.

